Now let's prepare an agenda.
No agenda?
No meeting!
No kidding, and no exception,
otherwise you are wasting everyone's time including your own,
so create an agenda and remember,
an agenda is a very powerful tool to guide the meeting and its expected outcome.
It is the tool for your success.
Know your expected outcome.
This will really help you keep in mind and keep you focused on all the
elements you must collect for a successful meeting.
Let's develop the agenda.
Use your preliminary agenda we talked about earlier as a starting point.
Identify the items of discussion and lay out a sequence for the meeting.
Plan time for a brief introduction to provide context and
for a discussion of next steps at the end.
Decide how much time to devote to each item and what order makes sense.
The longer your meeting, the harder it will be for people to remain focused,
so it's wise to underestimate how much your group
can cover in the allotted time.
Therefore,
list items to discuss to ensure your outcome is realized and for each item,
identify the person who will be the primary person to lead off that
topic and how about how much time is allotted,
too.
Now that the agenda is complete and looking pretty good,
let's send out the agenda prior to the meeting.
You might still label it preliminary, if you want,
since you still may want to modify it,
but it is important to have attendees see the agenda and to see
if they are on the hook for discussing a topic and to just
basically prepare for the meeting.
Contact key attendees prior to the meeting.
Now this is interesting, I think.
You know,
you want to be sure the key contacts are coming and be sure
they are prepared to talk on the topic,
so you might want to give them a call on the phone and
maybe have a type of a pre-meeting.
This can be a very important technique to ensure the outcome is achieved.
Again,
you might invite 10 people but maybe two or three are the real key
players; maybe a couple are the CFO and the CEO.
Make sure they're coming, make sure they're prepared,
and the meeting will be successful.
Lastly, document the meeting.
You must document the meeting.
Document actions and outcomes while the meeting is being
conducted and clean up your notes afterward.
Maybe even bring a support person with you if you need to, to capture the notes.
Stay on track and manage wasted chitchat.
That chitchat is just unneeded and unwarranted talk during a meeting.
Control that.
You also want to capture other meeting notes,
such as who attended and who did not attend.
Also, any agreements that were made.
Also, any actions and for each action, who owns that action and when it is due.
And also lastly, next meeting date and time,
if there is going to be a next meeting.
Now here's a tip.
Always focus on your expected outcome.
In other words, what you want out of this meeting,
because that really is your requirements,
so based on your requirements you can better write the
agenda and decide who is the best to come.
Now here is a meeting agenda content.
This can just be a template in Word if you like and it's going to
be real simple so you can pull it out quickly,
fill in the blanks, and away you go.
Meeting name?
We talked about meeting names before and they need
to be significant and meaningful.
Location date and time.
You know,
watch out for time zones and double check the availability of the location.
Attendees, required or optional.
Include email addresses and phone numbers so people can easily reach out and
share information with each other prior to the meeting.
You're going to write down the purpose and the expected outcomes,
why you are there, what is the purpose, and what you want out of the meeting.
Then you're going to list all the agenda items and for each item,
again the preliminary person to speak to that particular
topic and the allotted time in minutes.
Recap of the assignments and action items.
Again,
this will just be a reminder to do the recap because you don't know the
assignments and action items prior to the meeting typically.
This really is just a reminder,
to go around a room and confirm assignments and action items.
Now I'll have much more on this in the verbal communication module on meetings.
And then the next meeting.
You know, when are you going to have it,
where you're going to have it, and who will come.
Certainly feel free to embellish your agenda to meet your specific needs,
but I would suggest you do not remove any of these items,
but maybe add more.
And also a tip.
Don't forget the 5 C's.
In everything you have written you have got to be clear,
concise, courteous, consistent and compelling.
I'm going to keep pounding that in.
That's very, very important.
Okay, now let's see an example.
Here is an example of a meeting agenda.
First there is the meeting name, Project Polar Weekly Technical Team Meeting.
Very clear and concise.
Next, the location and date.
It's going to be in Irvine, December 1st, 10 to 11 a.
m.
Pacific Time, so the time zones can be important as well.
Attendees.
We have Michael, Paul, and Cindy,
and I've also included phone numbers and emails so that way people can get
a hold of each other prior to the meeting if necessary.
Next, purpose.
To complete the data model design for project Polar;
that's the purpose of the meeting.
What's the expected outcome?
A SQL Server data model schematic to provide to the developers.
So I have the purpose of the meeting and what I want out of the meeting.
Very clear.
We're not going to be talking about C# or programming,
we're going to be talking about the data model.
So I'm going to list my agenda items and who's responsible and
about how much floor time they will have.
So validate primary keys is Paul for 15 minutes.
Validate foreign keys is Paul for 15 minutes.
Validate normalization is Cindy for 10.
And convert to PDF is Michael for 10 minutes.
Now that adds up to 50 minutes which leaves us 10 minutes of
kind of extra time to do other things,
such as recap of assignments and action items and to talk about
maybe the next meeting in terms of when and where.
So I've already proposed it in the agenda, the following week, same time.
Are we done with our meeting?
Well, not yet. We still have one more task so let's check out this great quote.